Bug fixes and documentation (#2694)
microsoft/onefuzz: docs/unmnaged-nodes.md

# Unmanaged Nodes

> The default mode of onefuzz is to run agent inside scaleset managed by the the Onefuzz instance. But it is possible to run outside of the Instance infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default mode of OneFuzz is to run the agents inside scalesets managed by the the Onefuzz instance. But it is possible to run outside of the Instance infrastructure.
```

> This is the unmanaged scenario. In this mode, the user can use its own resource to participate in the fuzzing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the unmanaged scenario. In this mode, the user can use their own resource to participate in the fuzzing.
```

## Set-up
These are the steps to run an unmanaged node

> ### Create an application registration in azure active directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an Application Registration in Azure Active Directory
```

We will create the authentication method for the unmanaged node.

> From the [azure cli](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) create a new **application registration**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the [azure cli](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) create a new **application registration**:
```

```cmd
az ad app create --display-name <registration_name>
```

> Then use the application `app_id` in the result to create the associated **service principal**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then use the application `app_id` in the result to create the associated **service principal**:
```

```cmd
az ad sp create --id <app_id>
```

> Take note of the `id` returned by this request. We will call it the `principal_id`
> create an client_secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take note of the `id` returned by this request. We will call it the `principal_id`.

Next, create a `client_secret`:
```

```
az ad app credential reset --id <pp_id> --append
```
Take note of the `password` returned.

> ### Authorize the application in onefuzz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authorize the application in OneFuzz
```

> From onefuzz deployment folder run the following script using the app_id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the OneFuzz `deployment` folder run the following script using the `app_id` from above:
```

``` cmd
python .\deploylib\registration.py register_app <onefuzz_instance_id> <subscription_id> --app_id <app_id> --role UnmanagedNode
```

### Create an unmanaged pool
From the onefuzz cli
``` cmd
onefuzz pools create <pool_name> <os> --unmanaged --object_id <principal_id>
```

### Download the agent binaries and the agent configuration

> Download a zip file containing the agent binaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download a zip file containing the agent binaries:
```

```
onefuzz tools get <destination_folder>
```
Extract the zip file in a folder of your choice

download the configuration file for the agent

```
onefuzz pools get_config <pool_name>
```

Under the client_credential section of the agent config file. update client_id and client
```json
{
    "client_id": "<app_id>",
    "client_secret": "<password>",
}
```

> Save the config to file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the config to the file.
```

### Start the agent.

> Navigate to folder corresponding to your os.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the folder corresponding to your OS.
```

> Set the necessary environment variable by running the script set-env.ps1 of set-env.sh depending on your platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the necessary environment variable by running the script `set-env.ps1` (for Windows) or `set-env.sh` (for Linux).
```

> Run the agent with the following command. If you need more nodes use different `machine_guid` for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the agent with the following command. If you need more nodes use a different `machine_guid` for each one:
```

```cmd
onefuzz-agent run --machine_id <machine_guid> -c <path_to_config_file>
```

### Verify that the agent is registered to OneFuzz

> In the onefuzz cli run the following command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the OneFuzz CLI run the following command:
```

```
onefuzz nodes get <machine_guid>
```

> This should return one entry. Verify that the `pool_name` matched the pool name created earlier
> From here you will be able to schedule jobs on that pool and they will be runnin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should return one entry. Verify that the `pool_name` matched the pool name created earlier. 
From here you will be able to schedule jobs on that pool and they will be running.
```
